/* Imakefile for WWW

	use normal WWW BUILD command
	then install 'www' into DESTDIR/bin/ATKWWW

	need to parse output of BUILD to find out 
		where the result went, (if anywhere)

*/

awww: 
	ANDREWDIR=$(DESTDIR) ./BUILD library
	ANDREWDIR=$(DESTDIR) ./BUILD linemode
	rm -f ,nlog
	- ./BUILD nothing > ,nlog
	- rm -f awww
	ln -s LineMode/`awk '/machine/{print $$(NF)}' < ,nlog`/www awww
	rm -f ,nlog

InstallProgram(awww, $(DESTDIR)/etc)


/* these cleaning rules are from Makefile.cern 
		need '?'s to avoid being comments !
*/

clean::
	rm -f *[~#] */?*[~#] */?*/?*[~#]
	rm -f *.o */?*.o */?*/?*.o
	rm -f *.old */?*.old */?*/?*.old

clobber: clean
	rm -f Library/[a-z0-9]*/libwww.a
	rm -f LineMode/[a-z0-9]*/www*
	rm -f Daemon/[a-z0-9]*/httpd*
	rm -f Daemon/[a-z0-9]*/htimage
	rm -f Daemon/[a-z0-9]*/htadm
	rm -f Daemon/[a-z0-9]*/cgiparse
	rm -f Daemon/[a-z0-9]*/cgiutils




/* dependencies done by hand */

awww: Library/Implementation/HTAABrow.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAABrow.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAABrow.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAAUtil.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAAUtil.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAAUtil.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAccess.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAccess.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAccess.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAlert.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAlert.c.ori
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAlert.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAlert.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAnchor.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAnchor.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAnchor.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAssoc.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAssoc.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAssoc.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAtom.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAtom.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTAtom.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTBTree.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTBTree.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTBTree.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTChunk.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTChunk.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTChunk.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTDescpt.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTDescpt.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTDescpt.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTDirBrw.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTDirBrw.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTDirBrw.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTEPtoCl.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTEPtoCl.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTEPtoCl.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTErrMsg.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTError.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTError.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTError.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTEscape.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTEscape.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTEscape.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTEvent.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTEvent.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTEvent.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFTP.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFTP.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFTP.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFWrite.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFWrite.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFWrite.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFile.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFile.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFile.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFormat.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFormat.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTFormat.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTGopher.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTGopher.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTGopher.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTGuess.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTGuess.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTGuess.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTHist.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTHist.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTHist.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTIcons.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTIcons.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTIcons.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTInit.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTInit.c.ori
awww: Library/Implementation/HTInit.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTInit.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTList.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTList.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTList.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMIME.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMIME.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMIME.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTML.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTML.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTML.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMLDTD.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMLGen.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMLGen.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMLGen.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMLPDTD.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMLPDTD.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMLPDTD.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMulti.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMulti.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTMulti.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTNews.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTNews.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTNews.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTParse.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTParse.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTParse.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTPlain.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTPlain.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTPlain.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTRules.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTRules.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTRules.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTStream.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTStream.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTString.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTString.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTString.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTStyle.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTStyle.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTStyle.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTCP.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTCP.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTCP.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTP.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTP.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTP.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTeXGen.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTeXGen.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTeXGen.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTee.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTee.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTee.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTelnet.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTelnet.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTTelnet.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTThread.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTThread.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTThread.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTUU.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTUU.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTUU.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTUtils.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTUtils.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTWAIS.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTWAIS.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTWAIS.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTWSRC.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTWSRC.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTWSRC.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTWriter.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTWriter.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTWriter.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTXParse.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTXParse.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HTXParse.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HText.h
awww: Library/Implementation/HText.html
awww: Library/Implementation/HTomime.c
awww: Library/Implementation/HTomime.h
awww: Library/Implementation/SGML.c
awww: Library/Implementation/SGML.h
awww: Library/Implementation/SGML.html
awww: Library/Implementation/WWWLib.h
awww: Library/Implementation/WWWLib.html
awww: Library/Implementation/tcp.h
awww: Library/Implementation/tcp.html

awww: LineMode/Implementation/DefaultStyles.c
awww: LineMode/Implementation/DefaultStyles.c.classic
awww: LineMode/Implementation/DefaultStyles.c.modern
awww: LineMode/Implementation/GridStyle.c
awww: LineMode/Implementation/GridStyle.h
awww: LineMode/Implementation/GridStyle.html
awww: LineMode/Implementation/GridText.c
awww: LineMode/Implementation/GridText.h
awww: LineMode/Implementation/GridText.html
awww: LineMode/Implementation/HTBrowse.c
awww: LineMode/Implementation/HTBrowse.h
awww: LineMode/Implementation/HTBrowse.html
awww: LineMode/Implementation/HTFont.h
